# Voronoi_Diagram

This project originated from my volunteer work with the Fresno County Public Health Department. I was tasked with analyzing vaccination rates (for polio, measles, etc.) of the public schools within the county. I immediately realized that this type of diagram would be the perfect way to visualize these data, since it is a relatively safe assumption that the vast majority of students attend the school that is nearest to their home. I could color the various sectors by the nearest school's vaccination rate and get a good sense of the various enclaves within the county.

Unfortunately, I had never heard of a Voronoi diagram, nor did I learn about it while searching for existing solutions in R. I did not learn the term "Voronoi" until I had already built one from scratch...

So this project, "Voronoi MK2.r" in particular, contains code that builds a Voronoi diagram given a set of points and a boundary polygon. In my case, the points were all of the schools in Fresno County and the boundary polygon is Fresno County itself.

## Method Overview

This is a streamlined description of the algorithm:

For each point in the provided dataset:

n-1 lines of equidistance are noted that relate the point to the other n-1 points. "Equidistance" means that every point along the line is equidistant from the point of interest and the one other point in the dataset. These lines are generated by finding the line, perpendicular to the line connecting the points, where circles of the same radius r would intersect if their centers were the two points in question.

Drawing all of these lines of equidistance and the boundary polygon creates a bounded space around the point. Next, the algorithm finds which line is nearest along a 0 rad. line radiating from the point. Then it crawls counter-clockwise along this bounded space, recording the points where it jumps to a new line, until it returns to the 0 rad. line. It then uses the recorded points to generate a polygon.

When all n polygons are drawn, we are left with a Voronoi diagram that fills the boundary space.

Check out the included .png file for a finished product. And check out https://bmkarahadian.shinyapps.io/fresno_vaccine_voronoi/ for the leaflet/shiny app I built to visualize the Fresno County data.
